docs/advanced/bridges.md, before:

---
title: "Bridges"
date: 2021-08-03T20:30:00+02:00
---

# IRC Bridges

## IRC Bridge to irc.tilde.chat

our envs.net matrix instance provides an federated irc bridge to [irc.tilde.chat](https://tilde.chat/).

### Bridge information

|  |  |
|:------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| **network name:**       | irc.tilde.chat                                                                             |
| **room alias format:**  | `#irc.tilde.chat_CHANNELNAME:envs.net`                                                     |
| **appservice user:**    | [@IRCBot:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/@IRCBot:envs.net)                                   |
| **NickServ:**           | [@irc.tilde.chat_NickServ:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/@irc.tilde.chat_NickServ:envs.net) |
| **ChanServ:**           | [@irc.tilde.chat_ChanServ:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/@irc.tilde.chat_ChanServ:envs.net) |
| **room for support:**   | [#envs:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/envs:envs.net)                                        |
| **operator:**           | envs.net (~creme)                                                                          |

## Documentation

- [matrix irc bridge documentation](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-appservice-irc/latest/usage.html)
- [end user faq](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-appservice-irc/wiki/End-user-FAQ)
- [tilde.chat - wiki](https://tilde.chat/wiki/)

Commit message:

bridge: add some basic example commands

docs/advanced/bridges.md, after:

---
title: "Bridges"
date: 2021-08-03T20:30:00+02:00
---

# IRC Bridges

## IRC Bridge to irc.tilde.chat

our envs.net matrix instance provides an federated irc bridge to [irc.tilde.chat](https://tilde.chat/).

### Bridge information

|  |  |
|:------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| **network name:**       | irc.tilde.chat                                                                             |
| **room alias format:**  | `#irc.tilde.chat_CHANNELNAME:envs.net`                                                     |
| **appservice user:**    | [@IRCBot:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/@IRCBot:envs.net)                                   |
| **NickServ:**           | [@irc.tilde.chat_NickServ:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/@irc.tilde.chat_NickServ:envs.net) |
| **ChanServ:**           | [@irc.tilde.chat_ChanServ:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/@irc.tilde.chat_ChanServ:envs.net) |
| **room for support:**   | [#envs:envs.net](https://matrix.to/#/envs:envs.net)                                        |
| **operator:**           | envs.net (~creme)                                                                          |

## example commands

### talk to bridge admin-bot

`/msg @IRCBot:envs.net !help`

### !listrooms

List all the Matrix rooms that you are joined to which are also connected to IRC.

`/msg @IRCBot:envs.net !listrooms`

### join a irc channel

`/msg @IRCBot:envs.net !join #channelname`

### more commands

.. in the offical documentation on [https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-appservice-irc/latest/admin_room.html](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-appservice-irc/latest/admin_room.html).

## Documentation

- [offical matrix irc bridge documentation](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-appservice-irc/latest/usage.html)
- [end user faq](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-appservice-irc/wiki/End-user-FAQ)
- [tilde.chat - wiki](https://tilde.chat/wiki/)
